Well, now we look forward
to the next speaker.
This is Brother Stephen Lett,
also of the Governing Body.
He gives us the theme here:
“Never Give Up Much for Little.”
Jesus gave a parable about a young man
who exchanged peace and prosperity
in his father’s household
for a debauched, miserable, desperate life.
Foolishly
he exchanged much for little.
It’s the story of the prodigal son,
Luke chapter 15.
In contrast, in Matthew chapter 13,
Jesus gave a story about a traveling merchant
who sold everything he had
to buy one pearl of high value.
When we understand
the meaning of that parable,
in actuality
he exchanged a little for much.
Now, obviously you brothers and sisters
do not want to imitate the prodigal son.
You want to imitate the traveling merchant,
and Jehovah doesn’t want you
to give away much for little.
He wants you to give away little for much.
And Jehovah is anxious to give you this much.
That’s why he’s recorded parables
such as the two we just mentioned
and also real life stories in his Word
that depict both scenarios
so that we can be wise.
In fact, let’s briefly discuss
four Bible examples
of ones who foolishly
gave up much for little,
and then we’ll talk
about four Bible examples
of ones
who gave up little for much.
Our first example: Satan.
Now, Satan gave up a priceless,
honored position of trust
in Jehovah’s service
that he may have enjoyed
for aeons of time.
And what did he receive for what he gave up?
A relatively short,
miserable life of independence from Jehovah,
and ultimately
he will have earned for himself
the “lake of fire.”
We know right now
that Satan cannot be happy at all.
Jehovah is described as a “happy God”
(1 Timothy 1:11);
Jesus, the happy Potentate
(1 Timothy 6:15);
“happy is the nation whose God is Jehovah”
(Psalm 33:12),
but Satan is never described
as anything close to happy, is he?
He’s described as an enraged roaring lion,
an accuser who accuses day and night,
one who has great anger
because he knows his time is short.
Does that sound like a happy person?
But what caused Satan
to give up so much for so little?
Pride.
Pride actually caused him to think
that he was smarter than Jehovah.
Can you imagine that the clay
was smarter than the potter?
Pride caused him to think
that life without Jehovah
would actually be a better life.
Well, may we never pridefully feel
that we know better than Jehovah in any area
—for example,
how to treat disfellowshipped ones,
the need to avoid bad association,
marrying only in the Lord are a few examples.
May we never pridefully feel
that the so-called freedom
from Jehovah that the world offers
will bring happiness.
Let’s learn from Satan.
Never allow pride to cause you
to give up much for little.
Now our second example:
Adam and Eve.
Satan offered them
opportunity to be like God,
his own aspiration.
And stupidly
—I mean stupidly—
they bought into his hoax.
They selfishly
gave up their invaluable family ties
with the best Father they could ever have.
They gave up their Paradise home,
perfect everlasting life,
their children’s future welfare.
All for what?
A relatively short,
miserable life of independence from Jehovah
and finally nonexistence
—a total loss.
What an outstanding example
of giving up much for little!
So may we learn from Adam and Eve.
Never allow Satan’s lies
to cause you to give up much for little
—lies such as
“Material things will make you happy”
or “Immorality will make you happy.”
Unlike Adam and Eve,
let’s refuse to allow Satan’s lies
to cause us to give up much for little.
Esau, our third example,
knew the history of Satan and Adam and Eve.
But did he learn from them?
No, he too lacked appreciation
for sacred things.
Esau was Isaac’s firstborn son,
and in Bible times,
this had great value,
but he thought only
of his immediate physical cravings.
Genesis 25:32 says
that he became very hungry and cried out:
“I am about to die!”
Was he really?
Should he not have endured
a little bit longer
rather than sell his birthright?
Now pretty quick, he realized his mistake.
He sold something with real value.
For what?
What did he receive?
Some bread and lentil stew.
Apparently, this stew
didn’t even have any meat in it.
We Bethelites,
we can get bread, lentils, and meat
for free in the Bethel pantry.
What is a lesson that we can learn from Esau?
Well, open up
to Hebrews chapter 12, please.
And here’s a very interesting lesson
Jehovah teaches us about Esau.
Hebrews 12:16:
“And watch that among you
“there is no one who is sexually immoral
“nor anyone who does not appreciate
sacred things,
“like Esau,
“who gave up his rights as firstborn
in exchange for one meal.”
But, you know, interestingly,
Jehovah compares a person
who commits sexual immorality
to what Esau did.
And if you think about it,
both lack self-control
and give in to fleshly desires.
That’s what Esau did.
That’s what a person
who commits sexual immorality does.
Well, may none of us allow immorality
to cause us to sell
our figurative birthright,
our inheritance in Jehovah’s new world.
And think about this:
How long did that bread
and lentil stew
last Esau?
How long did it benefit him?
A few hours?
Soon he would have been hungry again.
Well, similarly,
how long does
the so-called pleasure
of an immoral person last?
Only a short time
followed by horrible consequences,
including a bad conscience.
Now our fourth example:
the rich young ruler in Jesus’ day.
He held a high position
and had many possessions.
Jesus even felt love for him.
But was he prepared to give up his wealth
for something infinitely
more valuable and permanent,
the treasure of following Jesus?
No.
When Jesus invited him, the Bible says:
“He went away grieved.”
He couldn’t bring himself
to give up his many possessions.
Instead, he gave up a wonderful future.
Obviously, he gave up
the wrong thing, didn’t he?
Where are those who did follow Jesus now?
Immortal kings and priests
with Christ in heaven in Jehovah’s presence.
But unless that young ruler
later changed his ways,
he and all that was his are now dust.
What a classic example
of giving up so much for so little!
May we never allow
any of the material attractions of this world
to cause us to give up
our wonderful future
in Jehovah’s new world.
Well, we’ve considered
our four negative examples,
but now let’s move
to our four positive examples
—ones who gave up little for much.
First: Abraham.
At Jehovah’s invitation,
Abraham gave up a comfortable life
in upscale Ur.
At Jehovah’s invitation,
he took his family
on a long, dangerous trek
to the land of promise,
and there he willingly
lived the rest of his life in tents.
But what did Abraham
receive for what he gave up?
He gained a permanent place
in Jehovah’s heart.
Jehovah himself called him “my friend.”
Because of his faith, Jehovah swore
that through one of his descendants
all nations would be blessed
and that descendant
—the Messiah, Jesus—
will soon resurrect Abraham
to enjoy the real life.
But now, are we willing
to give up material possessions and comforts
in order, for example,
to enter the full-time ministry?
Or maybe be able to move
and serve where the need is greater
in order to secure
a permanent place in Jehovah’s heart?
Like Abraham,
are we willing to give up little for much?
Our second example: Moses.
Centuries after Abraham,
Moses also gave up the right things.
Raised as royalty
in Pharaoh’s palace,
he was groomed for greatness
in the world of his day.
He knew all about Egypt’s
advanced civilization and culture.
But the Bible doesn’t elaborate on anything
that Moses accomplished in Egypt.
Why?
Because anything he may have achieved there
was utterly insignificant
compared to what he did
in Jehovah’s service.
Moses received the Law
that led Israel to the Messiah.
No other prophet knew Jehovah
“face-to-face.”
He did well in giving up life in Egypt
in order to carry out God’s commission.
As for the wealth and grandeur
of ancient Egypt,
we can see crumbling remnants of it
in museums.
But Moses gained God’s favor.
He gained the real life.
He gained a permanent place
in our spiritual heritage
and a permanent place
in all of our hearts.
Well, let’s go
to our third example: Jesus
—the best example
of gaining a lot more than he gave up.
Like Abraham and Moses,
he willingly gave up a comfortable life
—now in his case,
life in heaven alongside Jehovah.
But he emptied himself,
became a human,
ministered to other humans,
even gave his life
trusting that Jehovah
would give life back to him.
He gained the great joy
of fulfilling his Father’s righteous purpose
and redeeming those
he was especially fond of
—humans.
If you think about it,
apparently, Jesus didn’t really realize
how much he would receive
for what he gave up.
Because remember at John 17:5,
he said: “Father, glorify me . . .
“with the glory that I had alongside you
before the world was.”
In other words: ‘Father, please
give me back what I had before.’
But Jehovah gave him a lot more, didn’t he?
And that’s always true of Jehovah,
really, if you think about it.
You can’t outgive Jehovah.
Jehovah gave him a name
more excellent
than the angels.
Jehovah gave him all authority
in heaven and earth.
He even gave him immortality
and incorruption.
And we know that means
an indestructible life,
an indestructible organism, or body.
Now a fourth example:
Jesus’ apostles.
Peter, Andrew, James, and John
abandoned their fishing businesses,
didn’t they?
All the other apostles,
the Bible says, “left all things.”
And remember, Peter asked: “Look!
“We have left all things and followed you;
what, then, will there be for us?”
Well, Jesus assured him
that anyone who gives up material things
or even family relationships
for him or for the sake
of the good news
would receive a hundredfold even now.
If you think about that,
that’s a 10,000 percent return.
Plus, he will get everlasting life.
In fact, think about it.
Where are these apostles now?
Like Jesus—immortal,
incorruptible spirit creatures.
Open up to Revelation chapter 20,
and notice what is said about these ones.
Revelation chapter 20, please,
and notice verse 6.
It says: “Happy [notice that word happy]
“and holy is anyone having part
“in the first resurrection;
“over these the second death
has no authority,
“but they will be priests
of God and of the Christ,
and they will rule as kings
with him for the 1,000 years.”
So they’re going to be happy
in their assignment.
This is assured in this scripture.
Why are they going to be so happy?
Acts 20:35: “There is more happiness
in giving than . . . receiving.”
And what an occasion
the thousand years will be for giving!
Can you imagine assisting humans
to transform the entire planet
into its originally intended condition?
Imagine working closely
with the Christ to empty the grave
and gradually helping humans
to come to perfection
and then,
after the thousand years,
being able to share in the final crushing
of evil Satan and his wicked demons.
What happifying work all of this will be!
But what will be
their main source of happiness?
Well, being part of the main instrument,
the Kingdom,
that Jehovah will use
to sanctify and vindicate his holy name.
I thought I’d go ahead and put to work
that new understanding
Brother Jackson revealed earlier.
But it’s true
to vindicate
Jehovah’s name, his reputation,
that will bring
the greatest happiness to them.
You can be sure
that when the apostles
gave up their little fishing businesses
and the other apostles
their worldly pursuits,
they had no idea
how much
they would receive in return.
Well, now we’ve discussed
Abraham, Moses, Jesus, the apostles.
And there’s no doubt about it,
they would all wholeheartedly agree
that what they gave up
was very small compared to what they gained.
Well, what about us?
We all give up things, don’t we,
great and small for Jehovah?
We may give up time,
energy, money, possessions.
We may have to give up a little face,
prestige in this world.
But we will experience
what all those good Bible examples did.
What we get back
always far outweighs any loss.
In fact, most of us would probably say
that we feel like
we haven’t given up anything.
We’re receiving, like those men of old,
a hundred times more now.
And we are sure to gain life,
the real life,
if we never give up much for little.
I’m sure we all totally enjoyed
that encouragement.
Well now, at this point,
you’re probably thinking that we said
there was an adjusted understanding:
got that one;
a lot of encouragement,
yes;
then there was the one
about the yeartext, yes.
What was the other one?
Well, we’ve come to the final talk.
If we don’t get it now,
it’s not going to come.
Remember, we said an adjustment
to the way we do our ministry.
So with eager anticipation,
we look forward to hearing
from Brother Anthony Morris
who will talk to us about
“Making Our Blows Count.”
We are involved
in the greatest preaching campaign
in all history.
We publish quality literature
in 240 lands.
It’s amazing.
However, we’re not about seeking praise
for the quality of our magazines
or the hundreds of languages
that we’re translating in.
What’s our focus?
Well, we want to imitate
what the apostle Paul wrote about himself.
And the Governing Body
really wants this message
to be clear to all of God’s people
who are preachers
and teachers of the Kingdom.
So find what I’m referring to
in 1 Corinthians chapter 9.
And you’ll remember
he’s describing
his pursuit of the prize.
And it’s quite profound
when you reflect on it.
And you’ll see where it fits everyone of us
that are dedicated to the true God.
Verse 26:
“Therefore,
“the way I am running is not aimlessly;
“the way I am aiming my blows
is so as not to be striking the air.”
So you can picture running aimlessly.
It’s a waste of time and energy
—striking the air,
a waste of time and energy.
So the time left is reduced.
The end is so close.
Like I’ve told folks, if you look around
and you don’t see
how different it is and how close it is,
you must be in a coma.
And that’s OK.
God can bring you out of a coma
if you were all right before that.
But the Governing Body is concerned
that with the limited time
we have left
that we make our blows count.
So to truly make our blows count,
what should be the focus of our work?
We’re not left without knowing
how Jehovah thinks.
It’s been here all along.
But sometimes we can individually
and even organizationally get distracted.
Turn to Acts chapter 13
—Acts chapter 13.
And they were preaching
there in the first century,
and we get some results,
but we also get God’s thinking on the matter
and what he wants us to focus on.
Acts 13:48:
“When those of the nations
heard this [this message],
they began to rejoice
and to glorify the word of Jehovah.”
Now notice:
“All those who were rightly disposed
for everlasting life became believers.”
There it is.
That’s the focus of our work:
searching for those
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
It’s not complicated.
And to try to help somebody
who’s not rightly disposed,
frankly, is a waste of time.
Now, we don’t read hearts.
We understand that people can change,
and we continue with that.
But overall, Jehovah wants us to understand:
Let’s search out
for those who are rightly disposed
for everlasting life
because no one comes to the truth,
remember, as Jesus taught us,
unless Jehovah draws him.
We don’t want to get
to thinking that our personality
draws people to the truth.
You might be likable.
That’s wonderful.
However, Jehovah draws
those rightly disposed.
And you become friends and such
if you have the privilege
to study with people.
But that’s what it’s about:
searching for those rightly disposed ones.
That’s who he draws.
Those who are righteously—
He reads the heart.
And so we’re in this search work,
but we’re looking to focus
on those rightly disposed.
So with that clear,
the Governing Body
has identified two problems.
And this is what we want to pass on,
and it can adversely affect
our effectiveness in the ministry.
This is what we’re about:
a preaching and teaching organization.
This is who we are.
So for many years,
and we acknowledge it,
there was a focus on placing magazines,
developing magazine routes.
That helped some come
into the truth, no denying it,
because our literature
is the best on the earth.
Others have accepted our magazines
for many years,
many years,
and they’ve never
done a thing about the truth.
But they’re still going back.
You know, coming back
from a day of service,
“How many magazines did you place?”
Now, they mean well.
God loves us.
But excuse me,
that’s not the focus of our work.
It has to refocus on what we’re all about.
And just think about it,
Jesus commanded:
“Go, therefore, and make disciples
of people of all the nations.”
We don’t have the authority to change
what the head of the congregation has said
and go along the lines of,
‘Go, therefore,
and place a lot of literature’;
that’s not our focus,
even though it’s the best on the planet.
We’re about searching
for the rightly disposed
so they can become disciples of Christ.
And you know, these ones
who have taken our literature for years
(and you know, as we said,
individuals might change)
they remind us of
what happened in Ezekiel’s day.
And some of you are Bible readers
—scholars, if you will—
but let’s read it anyway in Ezekiel 33
and find what he faced.
And we face this.
It’s a reality.
So given the limited time,
we have to make sure
that Jehovah’s spirit
is moving us this way,
and that we accept that this is the way it is
in our day as well.
Now notice verse 31
of Ezekiel 33:31, 32:
“They will crowd in
to sit before you as my people;
“and they will hear your words,
but they will not do them.
“For with their mouth they flatter you,
“but their heart
is greedy for dishonest gain.
“Look!
“You are to them like a romantic love song,
“sung with a beautiful voice
“and skillfully played
on a stringed instrument.
“They will hear your words,
but no one will act on them.”
That’s every territory.
And as you’ve worked it for many years,
you can have faces
come to mind just like that,
come to occasional meetings and such.
Well, time is running out.
God is making that very clear to us.
We need to help people come into the truth.
We don’t need the flattery and such
—that kind of experience.
This is a time for decision.
We’re looking for people
who will act on what they learn.
That’s where our blows
are going to be effective.
People have to act on it.
And if you’re not seeing that,
just get searching
and let the angels
and Jehovah’s spirit
take you to the rightly disposed ones.
And something that we forget,
our work is twofold.
We can forget that sometimes.
We’re searching and bringing in
the rightly disposed,
and the other is we’re praising
and honoring Jehovah,
like Brother Lösch mentioned,
because they’re hearing
about Jehovah’s judgment day.
So it’s twofold.
It’s a warning work.
You could go a whole morning
and not have what you thought
was an effective day
—no literature—
but you praised God
because they’re still thinking
about Jehovah’s Witnesses
and your efforts to preach in that territory.
So we have to keep that in mind.
So that’s the one problem.
Here is problem two that we want to address.
We have so many tools
to use in the ministry;
it can be overwhelming and confusing
even to the best minds.
So you older ones, don’t feel:
‘I’m slipping here.
I’m confused.’
No, the young ones are trying too,
often overwhelmed and confused.
So our Teaching Toolbox
that we emphasized in recent years,
what happened is
that it became a huge toolshed.
A lot of you are nodding your heads.
That’s OK.
That’s not disloyal.
It’s true.
It’s become a huge toolshed.
Now, we appreciate the sample presentations
at the midweek meeting,
but frankly,
many of us are so busy
we can’t keep up with
all the latest presentations
no matter how good they are.
‘Well, that was good.’
And then Saturday morning or Sunday:
‘OK, what am I doing today?
‘We had three of them
at our midweek meeting.
I don’t know,
what am I supposed to do here?’
And then if you get a critic nearby,
you know, ‘Oh, Lord.’
You know?
Plus many struggle to keep up
with reading all the magazines.
You’re not a bad person.
Jehovah loves you.
We understand.
So in view of this,
the Governing Body is adjusting
the focus of our ministry.
You’re getting the message;
we are addressing these two problems.
And we are 100 percent
with this, unanimous.
Everybody in the departments
connected are with it.
They can sense Jehovah’s spirit moving,
and this is what Jehovah’s doing.
It’s his chariot.
He’s the driver.
So here are the adjustments.
Starting January 2018,
there will only be
three public editions of The Watchtower.
For those who are tied in,
I heard some expressions down in front here.
I couldn’t help it.
Only three public editions of The Watchtower
and three of the Awake! magazines
—the whole year.
Yeah.
I’m excited too.
I really am.
Now—
And what’s beautiful about this,
they’re going to cover one subject
in the whole magazine
—start to finish—
one subject.
Now, I have here a hard copy
of the first one.
So I’m excited about it.
And mind you, these are special.
This one is special.
It’s the first one.
And Jehovah is moving it toward
those rightly disposed for everlasting life
because he knows his day and hour.
And this one
is quite easy
to start a conversation with,
and once you have a question,
you’re in a conversation already.
So whether it’s
“Get off my porch”
or they want to get involved
in the answering of that question,
it’s effective.
And the rightly disposed
are going to be intrigued.
The first one, this question here:
“Is the Bible Still Relevant Today?”
Certain territories, maybe not,
but there may be
righteously disposed ones there.
You have a nice cover picture
—a woman in the back reading her Bible
as the train is going by,
people distracted with their watches,
their phones, etcetera.
And then, on the inside
—and you’re going to become
familiar with this.
You got plenty of time to use it—
this tool, over and over.
Oh, yeah.
You’ll know right where to go.
You might decide, well,
I’ll go where it comments
“Outdated or Ahead of Its Time?”
depending on what
the person may have said.
You have that freedom.
So appropriate:
“Help to Avoid Problems,”
“Help to Resolve Problems,”
“Help to Cope With Problems.”
Boy, do people need that.
And those that are
rightly disposed for everlasting life
know they have problems.
They’re honest about it.
And so this will touch their heart,
and Jehovah will draw them.
Now, what’s nice about it
is that you’re going to be able
to get very familiar with it, use it,
and it’ll become part
of our permanent Teaching Toolbox.
And it’ll go in the Teaching Toolbox.
Even like these skilled craftsmen
—they have their toolbox.
Why are they so good
at what they do in many cases?
Because they keep using these tools.
It’s not rocket science.
These are craftsmen with these tools.
“I need this; I need that,”
to accomplish what they need here.
So we only need so many tools in the box
—the ones that we can get
very good at using.
And what’s nice,
when it’s in a permanent
Teaching Toolbox there,
you’re not changing all the time.
And was all that sincere?
Yes, but I could tell you stories,
but time is running out,
of some of the things
I’ve heard out in the ministry.
And I could tell they never read that.
But they’re out there.
God love them.
They were knocking on doors with me.
You get familiar with the tool.
Now, what we’ll do is
we’ll evaluate after two years.
And it might be, we’ll see
what the Governing Body decides,
that we think we’ve got sufficient subjects
in the magazines for the toolbox,
and then we’ll just reprint
what’s already been written.
So you’ve got your tools.
Now, you’re going to get more details
on the Teaching Toolbox soon.
And you’ll also be pleased to know this
that (the brothers
have been working hard on this)
there’s going to be an update on the box
—Teaching Toolbox—
and the JW Library.
And we love the JW Library.
It’ll be on the home page there.
It’ll be happening in the near future.
And this question will arise now
because territories are different.
We understand that.
What if you find that the Teaching Toolbox
doesn’t contain a tool that you have found
effective in your territory,
like a video that you think is
and you’ve experienced effectiveness with it?
It’s OK.
Put it in your “Favorites” section.
That’s all.
Don’t write in and say,
“I think that should be
in the Teaching Toolbox.”
We’ve gone through
all of this at headquarters.
It’s OK.
But you go ahead and put it
in your “Favorites” section and use it.
Not a problem.
Now, so that’s covered,
those with the preaching
and the focus of our ministry.
And there’s another adjustment
that I’ve been asked to announce here.
We all enjoy the latest reports
on the worldwide work
that we have on jw.org
and JW Broadcasting.
We love it.
And I know recently someone
told me they didn’t know about Venezuela.
It was on jw.org, but you don’t want
to try and make him feel bad.
But there’s so much we’re getting
all throughout the year,
and it’s timely and a blessing.
So with this in mind,
the Governing Body has decided
that with all of the information
on jw.org and JW Broadcasting,
that as of 2018,
we will no longer produce
the Yearbook of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Especially if you’ve been
in the truth a long time,
yes, the 2017 is your last one.
So that’s historic.
But come on,
try to convince me
you’ve seen everything we’ve put
on jw.org and JW Broadcasting.
God is watching.
You’re well-fed.
You’ve got plenty there.
These latest developments
are indeed exciting.
And as the end fast approaches,
let’s honor Jehovah and make our blows count.
Let’s go forth and make disciples
of people that are righteously disposed
for everlasting life.
What an exciting announcement!
I don’t know about you,
I’m really excited about this
because we can see the end is so close.
And really, isn’t the main thing
that we should be thinking about
is helping people to know Jehovah?
That’s the prime goal.
So the Governing Body is helping us
to see how to have this toolbox.
We’re all looking forward
to seeing what’s in the toolbox.
In addition to that,
we’ve got a few
other announcements to make.
We’d like to inform you
of some changes
that are planned with regard
to the study edition of The Watchtower.
Now, since 2011,
in English we’ve been producing
two different versions
of the study edition.
We’ve had the standard edition
and the simplified.
And each of those
has filled a vital need.
However, in recent months
the Governing Body
has asked the Writing Committee
to investigate ways
to simplify the style
of the standard edition.
Additionally, the Governing Body
has approved a new design
for the standard edition,
which allows for a larger font style
and also has certain features
that are only in the simplified edition,
such as “Some Expressions Explained.”
So with this in mind,
the Governing Body has decided
as of January 1, 2019,
they are going to combine
both versions of the magazines.
This will not only simplify our work
but it will also be less confusing,
and we all will have
the same magazine that we’re using.
Now, you’ll be interested to note
that many of the larger languages
that were producing two editions
—languages such as Spanish,
Portuguese, French, and Italian—
have recently already
combined their editions,
trying to simplify the language
used in their standard edition.
And this has been very successful.
We will continue to produce
an electronic version
of the English simplified magazine,
and that will be used mainly by translators
to help them to make sure their translation
is still clear and understandable.
Now, in addition,
we’d like to let you know
that early next year
we’ll be receiving a new publication,
and it will be one of the ones
that we use in the toolbox.
It is called How to Remain in God’s Love.
And you see it here on the screen.
It’s 256 pages,
and it uses the same simplified style
as the Teach Us book.
So it’s going to replace
the current “God’s Love” book.
These two publications,
that is, How to Remain in God’s Love
and the Teach Us books
will be used in the toolbox
for helping students to become disciples.
Now, you look forward to getting that.
Well, I know we’ll be going away from here,
our minds and hearts spinning around
thinking of all the interesting changes
and developments.